Add blog post for StarlingX PTP Features (#226)
StarlingXWeb/starlingx-website: src/pages/blog/starlingx-ptp-multi-instance-features.md

---
templateKey: blog-post

> title: Precision Time Protocol Enhancements StarlingX 7.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: A Deep Dive Into the Precision Time Protocol Configuration Enhancements

```

Reviewer: Since we're well into the 9.0 release cycle, I think it is better to decouple the blog post from the release number when some of the new features were introduced.

author: Cole Walker

> date: 2022-04-19

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2022-06-05

```

Reviewer: Scheduling this a few weeks out since we still have a 'part 2' of the PTG recap blog post coming out.

category:

>   - label: News & Announcements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - label: Features & Updates

```

which takes the timestamps from an incoming GNSS signal and synchronizes the configured NICs with 
that timing information. This means that a StarlingX node with a compatible NIC and connected GNSS 
antenna can serve as a reliable Grand Master clock without the need for a dedicated external 
appliance. This functionality is desirable for edge nodes as it can reduce the complexity of 
delivering the time source across disparate locations, instead allowing each edge site to have easy 
access to a reliable clock source. A node with a GNSS time source can then be configured with ptp4l
to distribute that timing information to other local nodes.

The diagram below depicts an example PTP topology which uses a GNSS time source to provide accurate 
timing to several local nodes:

![alt text](/img/ptp-t-gm.png)

1. Incoming GNSS signal from an antenna connected to a compatible NIC. This serves to provide 
frequency information to the local PHC on the NIC
2. Time of Day information is extracted from the GNSS signal using ts2phc and is replicated to the
secondary NIC
3. The system clock is synchronized to the primary NIC PHC using phc2sys

> 4. A ptp4l instance is configured per-NIC, allowing timing information to be transmitted out each 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. A ptp4l instance is configured per-NIC, allowing timing information to be transmitted through each 

```

port

> 5. Bi-directional SMA ports connecting the primary and secondary NICs transmit the Pulse Per Second

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Bi-directional SMA ports are connecting the primary and secondary NICs to transmit the Pulse Per Second

```

frequency information from the GNSS signal to the secondary NIC, ensuring that both NICs are locked
to the same frequency

> 6. Time of day information is transmitted out each port by ptp4l. Frequency information is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Time of day information is transmitted through each port by ptp4l. Frequency information is

```

transmitted via syncE

# Basic Synchronous Ethernet Support
Synchronous Ethernet (syncE) can be deployed alongside PTP to improve the timing accuracy of the 
network. SyncE accomplishes this by distributing physical layer frequency synchronization across the

> network which is traceable to the primary reference clock (PRC). This means that each physical layer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
network, which is traceable to the primary reference clock (PRC). This means that each physical layer

```

> network which is traceable to the primary reference clock (PRC). This means that each physical layer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
network which is traceable to the primary reference clock (PRC). In practice, this means that each physical layer

```

segment is going “tick tock tick tock” at the same frequency as distributed from the PRC source. 

> The effect deploying syncE alongside PTP serves to improve the time synchronization performance by 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The effect of deploying syncE alongside PTP serves to improve the time synchronization performance by 

```

reducing jitter and wander, improving holdover performance, and enabling accurate time 
synchronization across a longer chain of nodes.

> SyncE functionality requires the use of NICs with syncE capable hardware and drivers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that the SyncE functionality requires the use of NICs with syncE capable hardware and drivers.

```

> Configuring syncE in StarlingX can be accomplished using the “clock” ptp-instance type on a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure syncE in StarlingX by using the [“clock”](https://docs.starlingx.io/system_configuration/kubernetes/instance-specific-considerations-d9d9509c79dd.html#clock) ptp-instance type on a 
```suggestion
Configuring syncE in StarlingX can be accomplished using the “clock” ptp-instance type on a 

```
```

downstream system in order to enable frequency recovery from an upstream source. Stay tuned for 

> additional functionality in a future release which will support syncE features like 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
additional functionality in future releases which will support syncE features like 

```

Best Source Selection and advertising the Quality Level of the syncE source.

> https://docs.starlingx.io/system_configuration/kubernetes/instance-specific-considerations-d9d9509c79dd.html#clock

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Supported NICs
PTP features in StarlingX rely on hardware and driver support. As of StarlingX 8.0, there are 

> several variants of the Intel E810 series of NICs that have been validated for use with PTP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
several variants of the Intel E810 series of NICs that the community validated for use with PTP.

```

Below are a selection of NIC models with various PTP, GNSS and SyncE capabilities that are currently
supported by StarlingX.

| Product                             | Model                 | Supported Features                                                  |
|-------------------------------------|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Intel Columbiaville - Salem Channel | E810-CAM2/CAM1/XXVAM2 | IEEE 1588 Precision Time Protocol                                   |
| Intel Logan Beach                   | E810-CQDA2T           | IEEE 1588 Precision Time Protocol<br>Local GNSS Connection<br>SyncE |
| Intel Westport Channel              | E810-XXVDA4T          | IEEE 1588 Precision Time Protocol<br>Local GNSS Connection<br>SyncE |

> PTP support in StarlingX is continuing to grow. Stay tuned for an upcoming blog post describing 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The StarlingX community is continuously woking on enhancements to the PTP support in the platform. Stay tuned for an upcoming blog post describing 

```

enhancements made to the PTP Notificiation application which allows applications running on 
StarlingX to query the status of PTP timing components and receive notifications when the system's 

> synchronization state changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
synchronization state changes.

If you would like to learn more about the project and get involved check the [website](https://www.starlingx.io) for more information or [download the code](https://opendev.org/starlingx) and start to experiment with the platform.
```

---
templateKey: blog-post
title: A Deep Dive Into the Precision Time Protocol Configuration Enhancements
author: Cole Walker
date: 2023-06-05
category:
  - label: Features & Updates
    id: category-A7fnZYrE1
---
Learn more about the continuously evolving Precision Time Protocol (PTP) support in StarlingX. <!-- more -->

Precise timing in a system is crucial, especially for use cases such as 5G and industrial 
automation. The StarlingX community has been adding functionality, like Time Sensitive Networking
(TSN) and PTP, since the 4.0 release to fulfill strict requirements.  If you're interested in
learning more about the initial use cases and implementation, you check out an earlier 
[blog post series](https://www.starlingx.io/blog/starlingx-ptp-part-1/) about the topic.

Starting with the StarlingX 7.0 release, the community has worked on broadening the PTP 
configuration options and introduced several features that extend PTP deployment types. In this blog 
post, we will examine the following enhancements to PTP support:

- Multi-instance PTP configurations

> 

Author: Fixed

---
templateKey: blog-post
title: A Deep Dive Into the Precision Time Protocol Configuration Enhancements

> 

Reviewer: Please remove the empty line.

Author: Done

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

author: Cole Walker
date: 2022-06-05

> 

Reviewer: Please remove the empty line.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

category:
  - label: Features & Updates

> 

Reviewer: Please remove the empty line.

Author: Done

    id: category-A7fnZYrE1
---
Learn more about the continuously evolving Precision Time Protocol (PTP) support in StarlingX. <!-- more -->

Precise timing in a system is crucial, especially for use cases such as 5G and industrial automation. The StarlingX community has been adding functionality, like Time Sensitive Networking (TSN) and PTP, since the 4.0 release to fulfill strict requirements.  If you're interested in learning more about the initial use cases and implementation, you check out an earlier [blog post series](https://www.starlingx.io/blog/starlingx-ptp-part-1/) about the topic.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

to the same frequency
6. Time of day information is transmitted through each port by ptp4l. Frequency information is

transmitted via syncE

# Basic Synchronous Ethernet Support
Synchronous Ethernet (syncE) can be deployed alongside PTP to improve the timing accuracy of the 
network. SyncE accomplishes this by distributing physical layer frequency synchronization across the
network, which is traceable to the primary reference clock (PRC). This means that each physical layer

segment is going “tick tock tick tock” at the same frequency as distributed from the PRC source. 

The effect of deploying syncE alongside PTP serves to improve the time synchronization performance by 

reducing jitter and wander, improving holdover performance, and enabling accurate time 
synchronization across a longer chain of nodes.

Please note that the SyncE functionality requires the use of NICs with syncE capable hardware and drivers.

You can configure syncE in StarlingX by using the [“clock”](https://docs.starlingx.io/system_configuration/kubernetes/instance-specific-considerations-d9d9509c79dd.html#clock) ptp-instance type on a 

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

transmitted via syncE

# Basic Synchronous Ethernet Support
Synchronous Ethernet (syncE) can be deployed alongside PTP to improve the timing accuracy of the 
network. SyncE accomplishes this by distributing physical layer frequency synchronization across the
network, which is traceable to the primary reference clock (PRC). This means that each physical layer

segment is going “tick tock tick tock” at the same frequency as distributed from the PRC source. 

The effect of deploying syncE alongside PTP serves to improve the time synchronization performance by 

reducing jitter and wander, improving holdover performance, and enabling accurate time 
synchronization across a longer chain of nodes.

Please note that the SyncE functionality requires the use of NICs with syncE capable hardware and drivers.

You can configure syncE in StarlingX by using the [“clock”](https://docs.starlingx.io/system_configuration/kubernetes/instance-specific-considerations-d9d9509c79dd.html#clock) ptp-instance type on a 

downstream system in order to enable frequency recovery from an upstream source. Stay tuned for 
additional functionality in future releases which will support syncE features like 

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

    id: category-A7fnZYrE1
---
Learn more about the continuously evolving Precision Time Protocol (PTP) support in StarlingX. <!-- more -->

Precise timing in a system is crucial, especially for use cases such as 5G and industrial automation. The StarlingX community has been adding functionality, like Time Sensitive Networking (TSN) and PTP, since the 4.0 release to fulfill strict requirements.  If you're interested in learning more about the initial use cases and implementation, you check out an earlier [blog post series](https://www.starlingx.io/blog/starlingx-ptp-part-1/) about the topic.

Starting with the StarlingX 7.0 release, the community has worked on broadening the PTP configuration options 

and introduced several features that extend PTP deployment types. In this blog 

post, we will examine the following enhancements to PTP support:

- Multi-instance PTP configurations

- Support for local GNSS time sources

- Basic Synchronous Ethernet (SyncE) support

- Compatibility with several Intel E810 NIC variants

# Multi-instance PTP Configurations
There are two applications used when a StarlingX host is configured as a PTP node. The first is 

> ptp4l, which is responsible for running the Best Master Clock Algorithm (BMCA). BMC selects the highest 

Author: ```suggestion
ptp4l, which is responsible for running the Best Master Clock Algorithm (BMCA). The BMC selects the highest 

```

to the same frequency
6. Time of day information is transmitted through each port by ptp4l. Frequency information is

transmitted via syncE

# Basic Synchronous Ethernet Support
Synchronous Ethernet (syncE) can be deployed alongside PTP to improve the timing accuracy of the 
network. SyncE accomplishes this by distributing physical layer frequency synchronization across the
network, which is traceable to the primary reference clock (PRC). This means that each physical layer

segment is going “tick tock tick tock” at the same frequency as distributed from the PRC source. 

The effect of deploying syncE alongside PTP serves to improve the time synchronization performance by 

reducing jitter and wander, improving holdover performance, and enabling accurate time 
synchronization across a longer chain of nodes.

Please note that the SyncE functionality requires the use of NICs with syncE capable hardware and drivers.

You can configure syncE in StarlingX by using the [“clock”](https://docs.starlingx.io/system_configuration/kubernetes/instance-specific-considerations-d9d9509c79dd.html#clock) ptp-instance type on a 
```suggestion

> Configuring syncE in StarlingX can be accomplished using the “clock” ptp-instance type on a 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Configuring syncE in StarlingX can be accomplished using the “clock” ptp-instance type on a 

Author: ```suggestion

```

Precise timing in a system is crucial, especially for use cases such as 5G and industrial automation. The StarlingX community has been adding functionality, like Time Sensitive Networking (TSN) and PTP, since the 4.0 release to fulfill strict requirements.  If you're interested in learning more about the initial use cases and implementation, you check out an earlier [blog post series](https://www.starlingx.io/blog/starlingx-ptp-part-1/) about the topic.

Starting with the StarlingX 7.0 release, the community has worked on broadening the PTP configuration options 

and introduced several features that extend PTP deployment types. In this blog 

post, we will examine the following enhancements to PTP support:

- Multi-instance PTP configurations

- Support for local GNSS time sources

- Basic Synchronous Ethernet (SyncE) support

- Compatibility with several Intel E810 NIC variants

# Multi-instance PTP Configurations
There are two applications used when a StarlingX host is configured as a PTP node. The first is 
ptp4l, which is responsible for running the Best Master Clock Algorithm (BMCA). The BMC selects the highest 

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

quality incoming time source and determines the role of each configured port (timeTransmitter vs 

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

timeReceiver). In addition, ptp4l is also disciplining the oscillator on the NIC according to the incoming PTP 

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

timestamps. The second application is phc2sys, which reads the time from a disciplined NIC and 

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

synchronize the system clock with it. Both of these applications are part of the [linuxptp project](https://linuxptp.sourceforge.net/).

StarlingX provides the ability to configure multiple instances of ptp4l in support of several 

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

which takes the timestamps from an incoming GNSS signal and synchronizes the configured NICs with 
that timing information. This means that a StarlingX node with a compatible NIC and connected GNSS 
antenna can serve as a reliable Grand Master clock without the need for a dedicated external 
appliance. This functionality is desirable for edge nodes as it can reduce the complexity of 
delivering the time source across disparate locations, and instead, it allows each edge site to have easy 

access to a reliable clock source. A node with a GNSS time source can then be configured with ptp4l
to distribute that timing information to other local nodes.

The diagram below depicts an example PTP topology which uses a GNSS time source to provide accurate 
timing to several local nodes:

![alt text](/img/ptp-t-gm.png)

1. The incoming GNSS signal from an antenna is connected to a compatible NIC. This serves to provide 

frequency information to the local PHC on the NIC
2. Time of Day information is extracted from the GNSS signal using ts2phc and is replicated to the
secondary NIC
3. The system clock is synchronized to the primary NIC PHC using phc2sys

> 4. A ptp4l instance is configured per-NIC, allowing timing information to be transmitted through each 

Author: ```suggestion
4. A ptp4l instance is configured per-NIC, allowing timing information to be transmitted through each port
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

> port

Author: ```suggestion

```

5. Bi-directional SMA ports are connecting the primary and secondary NICs to transmit the Pulse Per Second

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

frequency information from the GNSS signal to the secondary NIC, ensuring that both NICs are locked
to the same frequency
6. Time of day information is transmitted through each port by ptp4l. Frequency information is

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

network. SyncE accomplishes this by distributing physical layer frequency synchronization across the
network, which is traceable to the primary reference clock (PRC). This means that each physical layer

segment is going “tick tock tick tock” at the same frequency as distributed from the PRC source. 

The effect of deploying syncE alongside PTP serves to improve the time synchronization performance by 

reducing jitter and wander, improving holdover performance, and enabling accurate time 
synchronization across a longer chain of nodes.

Please note that the SyncE functionality requires the use of NICs with syncE capable hardware and drivers.

You can configure syncE in StarlingX by using the [“clock”](https://docs.starlingx.io/system_configuration/kubernetes/instance-specific-considerations-d9d9509c79dd.html#clock) ptp-instance type on a 
downstream system in order to enable frequency recovery from an upstream source. Stay tuned for 
additional functionality in future releases which will support syncE features like 
Best Source Selection and advertising the Quality Level of the syncE source.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```
